Welcome to Berea Temple, International Church's podcast.
I am your host, Timothy, and we're here together on this beautiful day to hear from God.
Today, we're fortunate to have our beloved pastor, Mike Gonzalez, with us, who will be sharing God's Word.
So let's all prepare ourselves to receive what God has in store for us today.
Let's begin.
Well, as I shared last week, we have wrapped up the primary theme that we have been running throughout this year.
This year, last year, we had I Am.
We walked through the I Am statements of Jesus and God, the Father in the Old Testament, Jesus in the New Testament, who they are, who he is, and who we are in light of that.
This year we have worked on, we are, and we worked on being AG, we are an Assemblies of God Church, church members who are focused on bringing hope and healing to our community, specifically our neighborhood.
God has planted us here in this place for a strategic time and a strategic purpose.
And so now we do that how?
How do we offer hope and healing to our community?
By being good neighbors.
And so we worked on being good neighbors.
And now we have come to a close of that.
We ended that last week.
But before we get into our holiday messages, it is the season.
We are thankful.
We are going to be stewards, banner carriers for the name of Jesus through the Christmas season.
We're going to pause and we're going to have what we call a one off sermon.
Now, you know, for the most part, we have been walking through topical sermons.
So working through a topic, pulling scripture throughout the Bible to show and support what we're talking about.
Today though, we are going to do something a little more expository.
Does anybody know what that word means about other than brother half?
Simply means we're going to stay in one spot of scripture.
So if you have your Bibles, I think you can already see where we're going to be.
And for those that might not know, yes, this is an actual book of the Bible.
It's just not one that we talk about real, real often.
So if you have your Bibles, let's turn to the book of Obadiah.
It is in the Old Testament, the book of Obadiah.
You will find it is only one chapter.
So good news, bad news kind of thing.
We're going to do the whole thing in one sermon.
Okay.
Good news.
Well, bad news, we're doing the whole thing in one sermon.
Good news, it's real short.
So while you're turning there, it wasn't too long ago in the 1980s that the world watched Jim and Tammy Faye Baker build an empire.
Those names are not familiar to you.
They were evangelists in the 1980s who had this very large worldwide television ministry thing, whatever you want to call it.
The PTL, they called it the PTL network, television ministry reached millions and they even created a Christian theme park called Heritage USA.
To many, they seemed to be on top of the world.
They were invincible.
They were unstoppable.
They were convinced that God's blessing was on everything they touched.
But how many know there's always a behind the scenes?
There's another side to the coin.
See, behind the scenes though pride crept in.
And as PTL grew, so did their sense of self-importance.
Their ministry meant to glorify God originally.
began focusing on their personal influence and material successes.
They stopped depending on God and started believing in their own untouchable status.
Then the scandal hit, allegations of fraud and moral failings, news that shocked and devastated the Christian community, and ultimately led to a cascading effect
that unfortunately actually really hasn't stopped to today.
It doesn't take very much to read in the newspaper about a youth minister or a minister or a denominational leader who is caught up in some situation that does not align with the faith that they profess.
And ultimately in the end of PTL, the ministry collapsed and Jim Baker was convicted and imprisoned.
And through a series of unfortunate events, Tammy Faye has since passed on.
The story is not just about them though.
Ultimately, it is a reminder for everyone of us sitting in the room or those that are watching online.
Just like Edom in the book of Obadiah, and we'll read about that in a moment, pride can make us feel invincible.
but ultimately it blinds us to the reality of life.
So here's what we're gonna do today in our time together.
We're gonna dive into Obadiah and see what happens when we lean on our own strength and we'll hear God's call to a life of humility and surrender.
If you're into note-taking, the sermon title today is Pride
comes before the fall.
Point one is the pride of Edom.
If you have your Bibles, look at verse three and four with me.
There is again just the opening there.
So verse three and verse four, if you have your Bibles, you're welcome to look there.
If you need to, it is on the screen in front of you.
says this.
It says, you've been deceived by your own pride because you live in a rock fortress and make your home high in the mountains.
Who can ever reach us way up here?
You ask boastfully.
But even if you soar as high as eagles and build your nest among the stars, I will bring you crashing down says the Lord.
The people of Edom felt
invincible.
They lived high up in the mountainous terrain of Sear surrounded by cliffs and rock formations that made the city almost impenetrable.
See this natural way that the land gave up
It created such a place, a stronghold, if you're much into knights and medieval lore and things like that.
It created this natural stronghold, this thing that is almost impenetrable.
It is essentially unassailable.
And they took pride in their high lofty position, both literally and figuratively.
They believed that nobody could touch them, not even God could do anything to them.
They had allowed their situation, their physical locality, to become their savior, to become their salvation, if you will.
But here's what happened.
Edom's pride deceived them.
It wasn't just the terrain that gave them confidence.
They had developed alliances with neighboring nations and had a reputation for wisdom and strength.
They thought that they had every angle covered.
But God, speaking through His servant as He often does, speaking through the prophet Obadiah, He ultimately shows them
that their pride would be their undoing.
Their pride is what was ultimately going to cause them to fail and fall.
They had replaced their dependence on God with confidence in their resources.
They had replaced God in their confidence of their own abilities.
They replaced God with their confidence in their surroundings
in their wealth, in their relationships, in their community, and within their heart, believing that, not even God can touch me, I am untouchable.
They believed that they were completely self-sufficient.
They had all that they needed.
It's an ancient story that we hear.
If I were to take a poll, I would guess that there would be very few in the room today that would say, you know, pastor, I absolutely love.
Might be our career.
I'm in a position where they can't go without me.
If I were to leave everything would come crashing down.
They don't dare fire me.
I learned a lesson from one of our fellowship leaders a number of years back.
He said, I'm not in the job.
I'm not in the market to employ people.
I'm in the market to tell people about Jesus.
And if that means I no longer need that person's services, it has nothing to do with their relationship or their value or who they are.
It simply means I no longer need that piece.
I need this piece.
And so something may change.
Every one of us is replaceable that no matter what your position, short of I guess being the CEO or the owner, I guess the owner would be a better example.
If you weren't sitting in your career seat tomorrow,
About two weeks from now, somebody new would be and they would be doing the job and they might not do it as good as you.
They might not be as smart as you, but the job will be getting done nonetheless.
Our pride, our confidence might be in our finances.
I've put enough away.
I've got my stocks.
I've got my bonds.
I've got my savings account.
I'm following Dave Ramsey to the letter.
I could, I could host Dave Ramsey show and be on there and I could do it just as good as he could.
I know what I'm doing.
Might even be in our relationships.
See, she's got it down.
It might even be in our relationships.
Many of you know who Billy Graham is.
Him and his wife, Ruth, had a saying.
She was asked one day, and I think I've shared this before, she was asked one day, Sister Graham, is divorce an option for you and Billy?
She said no.
Murder, yes, divorce, no.
No matter what our confidence is, we tend to build fortresses around the things that we believe make us secure, just like Edom did with their mountain stronghold.
In reality though, this kind of pride, it binds us and it leaves us to rely on our own ability rather than God.
When we allow this kind of self security, it takes away the role of the father in our lives.
Men, we struggle with this.
Every one of us do.
I'm not gonna pick and I won't argue it.
Every one of us struggle with this in some form or fashion.
I'm self-sufficient.
I'll do it on my own.
I can take care of it.
I've got it.
Leave me alone.
I'll figure it out.
I don't need your help.
Whatever it may be,
When we start using I, we take away he.
Think about times when our pride in something we're good at.
Maybe it's education.
Maybe we are super smart.
Maybe it's our status.
I am the CEO or I am the this or I am the that.
Maybe it's your position within your socioeconomical system.
And whatever that position is, it has caused us to overlook the need for God's wisdom and guidance.
We're like, ah, I don't need to pray about that.
I've got this figured out.
We put ourselves out on the ledge.
We put ourselves in a dangerous position when we begin to depend on our own understanding.
So here's the question or here's the challenge I have for you.
Are there places in your life where you've said in your heart, even if you've not said it out loud, we do this, we have these internal monologues with ourselves?
Who can bring me down from here?
Who can knock me off my, who can do better than me?
Who is smarter than me?
Who is whatever than me?
We need to recognize
that no fortress is safe without God as its foundation.
We need to remember that God in His mercy calls us to humility.
Not to humiliate us, but to help us build our lives on a foundation that can never be shaken.
Because only in God is there true security.
Only in our relationship with the Father is there absolute surety and security.
When we allow ourselves to look inward, we're building our house on the sand.
See, just like God told Edom that he would ultimately bring them down.
He does the same with any fortress that we build apart from Him.
So let's be humble.
Let's acknowledge our need for Him before pride blinds us just as it did with Edom.
Before pride gets in the way of our eyes.
See, many of us, we don't even realize it.
We've allowed pride to get in so far ingrained in our heart that we're moving throughout our day with no need for God.
Do you know how I know this?
Pull your toes in a little bit.
You all know what I mean by that.
I've said that enough here now.
I'm going to step on a few toes.
I'm not going to like what I'm going to say.
Do you know how we've all allowed pride to creep in?
Because statistically, most of us don't read our Bibles every day.
and statistically most of us don't have a personal quiet time with the Lord.
We don't spend our time praying and if we do it's, Lord I need this, I need this, I need this in your name I pray amen.
We haven't cracked our Bible in forever.
I'm gonna tell on myself.
In Bible college we were supposed to be doing some reading
This is not the one where I had to read the New Testament altar in the same semester.
This was my freshman year.
We had our Bible and we were supposed to be doing some reading.
And my professor came and said, did you even do your reading?
I said, yeah, of course.
She took my Bible and she opened it.
Anybody want to guess what it did?
What happens with new books when you first open them?
The spine cracks, right?
That's the sign of a brand new book, a good sign of a new book that hasn't been used.
And I had gotten a new Bible given to me for Bible college and she takes my Bible and she goes, and he goes, she goes, tell me about how much you've been reading.
Listen, I'll tell you the truth.
This is just me.
It's one of who I was when I was younger.
But we don't spend our time with him.
And if we're not spending our time with Him, that means we have no need to go to Him when we're making the decisions, when we're trying to move out throughout our day, when we're trying to make the choices that He presents us day after day, and we're not spending time with Him in prayer.
That means we've got all the answers and I don't need Him.
And so we need to take some inward time looking.
Because here's ultimately, and if you're a note taker, here's the other part of this.
Why is that important?
Because ultimately it leads to arrogance.
So we're going to look at the downfall of arrogance.
Look at Obadiah, verses 10 through 12.
Back to Obadiah, verses 10 through 12 says, because of the violence, there we go, because of the violence you did,
to your close relatives in Israel, you will be filled with shame and destroyed forever.
When they were invaded, you stood aloof, refusing to help them.
Foreign invaders carried off their wealth and cast lots to divide up Jerusalem, but you acted like one of Israel's enemies.
You should not have gloated when they exiled your relatives to distant lands.
You should not have rejoiced when the people of Judah suffered
such misfortune, you should not have spoken arrogantly in that terrible time of trouble.
You see, ultimately, Edom's pride did more than isolate them.
It hardened their hearts toward others, even their brothers in Judah.
When Judah fell to Babylon, and I know I'm getting into some of the history here, hopefully you have an awareness, you have some Bible literacy.
If not, go back and read it later.
When Judah fell to Babylon, Edom not only stood by, but also took part in some of the plundering.
They felt justified in abandoning Judah, even though they shared a common heritage.
Their prideful arrogance led them to act as though Judah's downfall was their own
opportunity.
If we're not careful, we'll find ourselves doing just that when a brother or a sister is being attacked.
when a brother or sister is under some kind of spiritual attack.
And rather than come to their aid and be an errand or a hur and lift them up and surround them in prayer or encourage them where they're digging more.
And yeah, that's right.
And we look down our nose or we point our finger and we wag it just a little bit.
And we've got to be careful that when these kinds of situations come to our brothers and sisters that we are there supporting because guess what?
The enemy is prowling around like a roaring lion, looking for whom he may devour.
And guess what?
If the enemy is attacking our brother or our sister in Christ today, and he devours them today by some unfortunate situation, guess who he's going to be looking at tomorrow?
And we're going to be looking for somebody to lift our arms up.
We're going to be looking for somebody to stand.
Remember last week when I brought brother Chris up and we stood back to back and we're going to be looking for somebody to come and to stay.
He sat way back farther now this time so I can't call on him.
And we stood back to back and we're calling out here and there.
The attack is coming from over here.
And we're gonna need that person to come and to join with us.
And so we need to be looking toward the opportunity to encourage and to lift up not to continue on the digging.
See, Edom's actions reveal an unsettling truth about pride.
It often makes us callous to the suffering of others.
So if we've established that statistically,
A fair number of us are dealing with some version of this because we know statistically people aren't reading their Bible and spending time in prayer.
Then that means that there is a fair number of us that are dealing with pride.
And so if pride does make us call us to the suffering of others, then it would logically surmise that there are some of us in the room today that are struggling, that are going through some things.
And there's some of us that are walking around going, oh bless the Lord, I hope you have a blessed day.
God's good, isn't he?
Completely a callous and oblivious to the deep pain and hurt.
And I won't cast my own self apart from that.
I try to hear and know what's happening within the context of our church and the people within our church, but I only know as much as is shared with me.
And so we need to not allow that callus to come.
See, arrogance blinds us to empathy.
Instead of feeling compassion for Judah, Edom saw their weakness as a chance to step in, to take advantage and to secure their own interests.
They're weak, so we're gonna fortify ourselves even more.
They're weak, they're under attack, so we're gonna come in and we're gonna, well, somebody's gonna take it, right?
The enemy, well, we were just being good brothers and sisters.
We want to hold on to it for them until they're ready.
And then, oh, I'm sure we'll give it back 300, 400, 800 years later.
You wouldn't want it to go to the real enemy, would you?
And we rationalize our actions when, in fact, all we're really doing is being a puppet of the enemy.
God held Edom accountable for their betrayal, condemning their indifference and their exploitation.
When we read passages like this in Scripture, when we read these difficult places where we don't really understand all that's really happening because there's a lot of language and a lot of explanation that is contextual to their time, their place, their situation,
We tend to read, and remember we used to talk a lot about being good students of God's word.
That is what we have to be.
We do this so that we understand what God's word is teaching, what he's saying.
And so when we do, when we say these kind of hard places, we tend to skim over them and just go, well, you know, yeah, and we get it for surface level.
But we've got to look a little bit deeper and a little bit farther into it.
because it's easy to judge Edom's response as heartless.
Yeah.
But it's calling us to examine our own selves.
When pride takes hold, it not only binds us to our own weakness, but also makes us insensitive to others.
And this can happen in our daily lives when we judge others' failures or their missteps.
Maybe even in our opening story about Jim and Tammy Febaker,
And it's easy to look down our nose and go, ha, stinkin' preachers, they're all no good.
We go, ah, that could never happen to me.
Pride can cause us to see somebody else's fall as a way to affirm our own strength, our own superiority.
See, I would never do that.
Our group, our church would never be like that church or my family or whatever it may be.
And we see it as an opportunity to fluff up, to push out our chest rather than to humble ourselves and go extend a hand and say, Hey, listen,
I know things are bad right now, and I'm so sorry that you're having to go through this.
I'm not justifying your decision, I'm not agreeing with what you did, but I want you to know as a brother or sister in Christ, I'm here.
And if you need me, I'm happy to help.
It's not my mess to clean up, but I'm here to offer a hand.
This pride can make us overlook a friend or a family member
that is in need, dismissing their struggles as the result of their own stupid choices.
They made their bed.
Now they got to lay in it.
You ever heard somebody say that?
Yeah.
Just because our bed looks pretty today doesn't mean it's not going to be a mess tomorrow.
It can lead us to gossip, revealing
reveling in somebody else's mistakes instead of stepping in to support them.
See, gossip in any kind, I don't care what you call it, gossip in any form is demonic.
Ooh, he said the D word.
What is gossip?
Talking about somebody behind their back, telling stories or whether truths or half-truth, telling something that's not yours to tell.
digging on somebody, that is an absolute tool of the enemy.
And he uses it to separate and to pull apart if that person isn't there to be part of the conversation.
Have we ever been like Edom, standing by when God was calling
One of us to step in, allowing pride to make us passive when we're meant to be active in love in different ways, to show mercy, to walk humbly with the Lord and to walk alongside the person that he has called us to walk alongside.
God's heart is ultimately moved by compassion, not pride.
Well, Lord, look at me in our beautiful building.
Look at me.
I stand on the platform.
I sit in my same pew week after week.
And I raise my hand and I sing beautifully.
But I don't walk outside the four doors of this church and I never extend a hand of hope and healing to my neighbor.
See, just like he judged Edom and their coldness towards Judah, he wants us to choose empathy and care over arrogance.
Edom's betrayal reminds us that pride distances us from other people and it hardens our hearts.
As followers of Christ, we need to be quick
to act in compassion and mercy, rejecting pride that blinds us to other people's needs.
Because ultimately this message, if you're a note taker, is this.
Well, let me give you the challenge, my bad.
It was the have you ever been like Edom standing by when God was calling you to step in.
Because ultimately this message is a call
to humility and repentance.
You go, well, pastor, we're already there.
I'm as humble as the next person.
I've asked Jesus to forgive me.
But have we and are we?
Look at Obadiah 15 and 16, and then we're going to jump down to verse 21.
15 and 16 and then down to 21 says the day is near when I the Lord will judge all godless nations As you have done to Israel so it will be done to you
All your evil deeds will fall back on your own heads.
Just as you swallowed up my people on my holy mountain, so you and the surrounding nations will swallow the punishment I pour out on you.
Yes, all you nations will drink and stagger and disappear from history.
Now jump down to verse 21.
Those who have been rescued will go up to Mount Zion in Jerusalem to rule over the mountains of Edom and the Lord himself.
will be king.
Amen.
See, just as Obadiah's prophecy unfolds, God shifts from addressing Edom's pride to a bigger picture, his justice.
And he says that the day of the Lord is near upon all nations.
It's a reminder that God holds everybody accountable, not just Edom.
This day of the Lord would bring justice and restoration, punishing pride and delivering his people.
See, for Edom, this was a warning.
They got the warning message, a chance to see the danger of their arrogance and to turn from it before it was too late.
But just like a good father, just like a great judge,
even with all of the judgment at hand, God gives us hope.
He speaks
of a remnant on Mount Zion, a group who would escape and find restoration.
The promise shows us that God's heart isn't simply to judge but to restore.
The world says that Christians are all about judgment, that God is just this big spirit in the sky looking to send down zaps and to punish people for not following his strict thou shouts.
But it's quite the opposite for those of us that know about the Lord.
He's saying, listen, yes, there's judgment, just like a good parent does.
He says, listen, if you touch that, I'm going to punish you.
Please don't touch it.
How many of these dads used to say this is gonna hurt me a whole lot more than it's gonna hurt you?
We won't say how many times that happened, but I know it's still to this day.
And God says, even though punishment is imminent,
going to give you hope.
I'm going to give you an out.
God's justice is always paired with mercy for those willing to repent and to humble themselves.
For Edom it was a missed opportunity, but for us it's a call to look and examine our own hearts and to respond in some way to what God is saying.
It's this point where we're called to turn inward.
Society, the world we live in today says that we make our own destiny, we control our own lives, but God's word reminds us that no amount of power, wealth, or pride will keep us from standing before Him one day.
Instead, our security is in humility.
acknowledging that he is ultimately in control.
Not us.
How many would say amen to that?
That's hard, right?
It's hard to acknowledge that he is in control of what we do.
One of my favorite sayings or reminders to myself inward is, it is no longer I but Christ that lives within me.
If you have my personal email address,
username, whatever you want to call it.
Lots of people have goofy things minus simply minus Mike.
Cause I don't want it to be me.
It's M I N U S Mike.
Cause it is no longer I, but Christ that lives within me.
And it's just a simple reminder to myself that I have to allow him to be in charge.
See, pride tells us to do life our way, but God calls us to seek His way.
He invites us to release our hold on self-centered pursuits and place our confidence completely and solely in Him.
He didn't have a great place, but ultimately they still fell.
So the challenge is, are there areas of your life where God has been asking you to let go
and trust him.
I know some of this is hitting real close to home and it making us feel a little bit uncomfortable.
See true repentance isn't about shame.
Very often we feel shameful and so we don't want to go before the Lord because whatever it was that we did, whatever it is that we're guilty of, we feel the normal human reaction of shame, but it's not about that, it's about surrender.
And he just says, if you'll just let it come, if you'll just let it go and you'll let it go to him, he'll take on, he already took on, allow him to be the one who carries the burden.
God isn't looking to condemn us.
He's wanting to restore us.
He's wanting us to be complete.
He's wanting us to stand whole.
It's an opportunity for each of us.
See, the beauty of repentance is it opens the door to freedom.
The enemy wants to tell you
Don't give this up.
Don't repent of this.
Don't acknowledge.
Don't admit this sin to God because he's gonna punish you if you do.
Don't tell anybody about your sin.
Don't tell anybody about your struggle because if you do, you're gonna live under the condemnation.
You're gonna live under the eye of the people and they're never gonna look at you the same.
They're never gonna do the same but that's not what repentance is about.
It's about freedom and living a life that is free in him if you will
allow it if you will confess it.
See when we lay down our pride and come humbly before our God we find joy and peace that only he can give.
How does Scripture say it?
Peace that passes understanding.
It's an opportunity for us today to make a personal choice to trade pride for humility and self-sufficiency for faith.
So I pray that we'll take God's call seriously.
He invites us to choose humility over pride, repentance over stubbornness, and to trust him over self-reliance.
The day of the Lord reminds us that God's kingdom will stand forever while our kingdom
it's gonna pass when we pass.
There's a guy by the name of John Q. Hammons.
You won't know that name because down in Springfield, Missouri, where we moved from, he was a wealthy philanthropist.
His name, it was on lots of buildings.
If you drive down one of the city streets, there's a community college and there's a big fountain, one of those great big ones with the stairs and the water rolls down.
And it says, this is a John Q. Hammond's monument.
Well, his wife passed, and then ultimately he has since passed.
And there was the biggest tower in the city.
They use it kind of like we have the cityscape over here on our banner.
In the Springfield cityscape, the biggest, tallest building is called the John Q. Hammond's Tower.
And the Springfield has a local AAA team of our St. Louis Cardinals.
They have the Springfield Cardinals.
And they built a AAA ball diamond.
to go so people could come and watch the games.
And that field was called the John Q. Hammond's Field.
And different buildings had different things and his name was on them.
But do you know that as he has passed, all of those buildings are being renamed for other things and other people?
Why?
Because his kingdom
wasn't built on the Lord.
His kingdom was built, his security, his fortress was his finances.
And those kingdoms will not stand the test of time.
So as we close today, our worship team can come.
See what we've seen as we've journeyed through this
just a very simple look at the book of Obadiah is that we've seen the powerful lesson that God teaches about pride.
Edom thought that they were untouchable, confident in their defenses and their alliances, but God showed that pride blinds us, leading us to hurt others, isolate ourselves and ignore our need for him.
We've seen the story of Edom as a warning, but it's also an invitation.
It's a call for us to examine our hearts and surrender any pride, self-sufficiency or false confidence we might be clinging to.
And we've seen that God's message to Edom echoes through the ages that no one is beyond his reach and no one is beyond his mercy.
Humility opens the door for God's grace to work in our lives in ways that we never can.
So let's choose to lay down our pride and let's invite God into every part of our lives.
Let's choose to put down our pride and invite the Lord into every corner of our church.
Let's put down our arrogance and our
our pride and let's invite the Lord into every area of our home, into every area of our marriage, into every area of our relationship with our children, in every area in our relationship with our family members, in every area in our job and our job situation, every aspect of our lives.
Because it's only in him do we find absolute
strength, and absolute protection, and absolute purpose.
So now we come to the time to respond.
We'll give us an opportunity to respond to Obadiah's message with open hearts.
To let go of pride, to embrace humility, to trust God fully.
Because in this we find peace, purpose, and security.
that only God can give.
So, Father, I pray, Lord, as we spend our closing times together, may you remind us that you are ultimately in charge
that you are the God of all creation, that you are the King of kings and the Lord of lords, that you are on most high and that you look down at your people not in judgment, but in love and peace and mercy.
Father, may we remember that you have called us to be humble, that you have called us to love,
with every head bowed and every eyes closed, please nobody looking around.
If you've never made the decision to follow Jesus, I want you to know that he's inviting you today to lay down your pride and say yes to him.
Choosing Jesus is choosing forgiveness.
Choosing Jesus is choosing freedom.
Choosing Jesus is choosing new life.
It's accepting the greatest love that you will ever know.
And that is the love of God who knows every part of you and welcomes you just as you are.
If you're ready to take that step here in just a moment, our choir, our worship team is gonna sing our closing song, and we want to invite you to join one of us here at the altar down front, and we would love to pray with you today to receive Jesus as your Lord and Savior.
For those of us that are already believers, maybe today God has pointed out an area where pride has taken root.
Perhaps it's in a relationship where there's tension or an area of life where you have been self-reliant, not fully surrendering to Him.
This is your opportunity to lay that pride down and embrace humility.
And you were also invited to come and to find a place at one of our altars or at the steps and to find some time to spend in his presence.
I would simply ask all of us to ask the Lord to reveal anything you're holding back and to help you surrender
to him, to open your heart and let him fill you with his peace, his strength and his direction.
Let's make this a moment of recommitment to walk humbly with our God.
The altars are open.